Add documentation to call async python from rust (#1678)
PyO3/pyo3: guide/src/ecosystem/async-await.md

    pyo3_asyncio::testing::main().await
}
```

# Calling async Python functions in Rust code

> In the previous chapter, we learnt how to call Python functions in Rust code. Now, we will look at two ways to call Python async functions from Rust code.
> In python, even an async function is treated like a regular function until called. When called, an async python function is treated as a coroutine.(More on this below.)
> We can either pass it either as a coroutine or either as a regular function.
> 
> 
> ## Async Functions
> 
> Before we start, let us take a look at the following snippet.
> 
> ```python
> async def fx():
>     return "hello, world"
> ```
> 
> Above, we have defined an async function. We will now execute it in rust code.
> 
> In python, even an async function is treated like a regular function until called.
> e.g.
> 
> ```python
> >>> type(fx)
> <class 'function'>
> >>> type(fx())
> <class 'coroutine'>
> ```

Reviewer: The start of the `async / await` chapter already describes what an `async` Python is. I dont' think we need to repeat this, and can instead replace this with a summary / recap:

```suggestion
Above we learned that an async Python function is a special category of function which returns a `coroutine` object. We learned how to write these functions in Rust, so that they could be awaited in Python.
```

Your next sentence "we will now write Rust functions" is then a perfect continuation of the chapter.

> We will now write rust functions to execute the python code in rust. The `PyAny` binding will be used to call Python functions in Rust code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will now write Rust functions which can await Python coroutines. The `PyAny` binding will be used to pass `coroutine` arguments. Again the `pyo3_asyncio` crate wll help us complete the implementation.
```

Now, let us take a look at how will we share the Python function in our rust code.

```rust

> 
> use pyo3::prelude::*;
> 
> #[pyclass]
> struct SomeObject {}
> 
> #[pymethods]
> impl SomeObject {
>     #[new]
>     fn new() -> Self {
>         Self {}
>     }
> 
>     fn start(&self, python_function: &PyAny) {
>         // where python_function is the function added from python
>     }
> }
> 
> #[pymodule]
> pub fn some_module(py: Python<'_>, m: &PyModule) -> PyResult<()> {
>     m.add_class::<Server>()?;
>     pyo3_asyncio::try_init(py);
>     Ok(())
> }

Reviewer: I think that using `#[pyclass]` is too complex for this example, let's use a `#[pyfunction]` instead. It will make it easier for the user to focus on the relevant code.

All the examples below will also need to be changed.

```suggestion
use pyo3::prelude::*;

/// Awaits a Python coroutine from Rust code.
fn await_in_rust(coroutine: &PyAny) {
    // we will fill in this implementation as the section continues...
}

// We need to create a module to contain this function
#[pymodule]
pub fn some_module(py: Python<'_>, m: &PyModule) -> PyResult<()> {
    m.add_function(wrap_pyfunction!(await_in_rust, m))?;
    pyo3_asyncio::try_init(py);
    Ok(())
}
```

```

> Now, to start it in python, we will do something like the following code:
> 
> ```python
> 
> import some_module
> 
> some_object = some_module.SomeObject()
> 
> async def fx():
>     return "hello world"
> 
> some_object.start() # what we pass here, will determine the code we write in our rust start
> ```
> 
> The `start` function shows how we will be able to send our Python code to rust.
> 
> Now, we have two choices. Either we can pass the Python function as the following:
> 
> ```python
> some_object.start(fx)
> ```
> 
> or we can pass an awaitable coroutine
> 
> ```python
> some_object.start(fx())
> ```

Reviewer: I think that introducing this choice already is confusing. Let's just focus on how to pass an awaitable coroutine for now, and use a new section at the end to talk about passing the function (I've suggested calling it "reusing a coroutine").

```suggestion
The following Python code shows how to pass a Python coroutine to the above Rust code:

```python
import some_module

async def fx():
    return "hello world"

some_object.await_in_rust(fx())
```
```

> In both cases, we will have to take the help of an external crate called [pyo3_asyncio](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3-asyncio)

Reviewer: No need to introduce this here, as it's already used throughout the chapter.

```suggestion
```

Now, let us say we take the first approach of passing a function.

```rust
use pyo3::prelude::*;
use pyo3::prelude::*;

#[pyclass]
struct SomeObject {}

#[pymethods]
impl SomeObject {
    #[new]
    fn new() -> Self {
        Self {}
    }

    fn start(&self, py: Python, python_function: &PyAny) {
        // here we are converting the function to a coroutine by calling it
        let coro = handler.as_ref(py).call0().unwrap();
        // here we are converting the coroutine to a Future
        // converting into a Future is mandatory to be awaited in rust
        let f = pyo3_asyncio::into_future(&coro).unwrap()

        pyo3_asyncio::async_std::run_until_complete(py, async move {
            f.await?; // here the async function is called
            Ok(())
        });
        // now we will need to convert the function to a coroutine
    }
}

#[pymodule]
pub fn some_module(py: Python<'_>, m: &PyModule) -> PyResult<()> {
    m.add_class::<Server>()?;
    pyo3_asyncio::try_init(py);
    Ok(())
}

```

Now, if we had passed a pre-made python coroutine , we wouldn't have to write the following code snippet:

```rust
let coro = handler.as_ref(py).call0().unwrap();

> ```

Reviewer: As discussed, let's move this to the end and instead show the user that they need to add this line to execute the async function.

As, we are already passing a pre-made coroutine. So, the code snippet would look like:

```rust
use pyo3::prelude::*;
use pyo3::prelude::*;

#[pyclass]
struct SomeObject {}

#[pymethods]
impl SomeObject {
    #[new]
    fn new() -> Self {
        Self {}
    }

    fn start(&self, py:Python, python_function: &PyAny) {
        // here we are converting the coroutine to a Future
        // converting into a Future is mandatory to be awaited in rust
        let f = pyo3_asyncio::into_future(&coro).unwrap()

        pyo3_asyncio::async_std::run_until_complete(py, async move {
            f.await?; // here the async function is called
            Ok(())
        });
        // now we will need to convert the function to a coroutine
    }
}

#[pymodule]
pub fn some_module(py: Python<'_>, m: &PyModule) -> PyResult<()> {
    m.add_class::<Server>()?;
    pyo3_asyncio::try_init(py);
    Ok(())
}

```

> Now, a _major_ reason where you would want to choose one approach over another is that a pre made coroutine cannot be awaited more than once.

Reviewer: Make a new sub-section "reusing a coroutine", perhaps?

```suggestion
## Reusing a coroutine
```

e.g. if you are planning to store one coroutine and call it multiple times for some reason, it won't be possible and you would be getting the error

```rust
RuntimeError: cannot reuse already awaited coroutine
```

So, if you are planning to store one function and reuse it again. It is sensible to pass it as a function, otherwise you can also pass it as a coroutine.

> You can read more about the crate [here](https://crates.io/crates/pyo3-asyncio).

Reviewer: No need for this, covered a lot in this chapter already.

```suggestion
```
